Add user account functions (#99)
commerce-docs/microsite-commerce-storefront: src/content/docs/dropins/user-account/functions.mdx

---

> title: User account functions

Reviewer: ```suggestion
title: User Account functions
```

description: Learn about the API functions provided by the User Account dropin.
---

import OptionsTable from '@components/OptionsTable.astro';

> 

Reviewer: Consider adding a short lead-in sentence like [cart](https://experienceleague.adobe.com/developer/commerce/storefront/dropins/cart/cart-functions/) and [PDP](https://experienceleague.adobe.com/developer/commerce/storefront/dropins/product-details/pdp-functions/).

    ['telephone', 'string', 'No', 'The telephone number.'],
    ['id', 'string', 'No', 'The address ID.'],
    ['vatId', 'string', 'No', 'The VAT ID.'],
    ['postcode', 'string', 'No', 'The postcode.'],
    ['street', 'string', 'No', 'The street address.'],
    ['streetMultiline_2', 'string', 'No', 'The second line of the street address.'],
    ['defaultShipping', 'boolean', 'No', 'Whether the address is the default shipping address.'],
    ['defaultBilling', 'boolean', 'No', 'Whether the address is the default billing address.'],
  ]}
/>

### Returns

Returns a promise that resolves to a string, which could be a success message or an error message.

### Usage

To create a new address:

```ts
import { createCustomerAddress } from '@/account/api/createCustomerAddress';

const address = {
  firstName: 'John',
  lastName: 'Doe',
  city: 'Los Angeles',
  company: 'Adobe',
  countryCode: 'US',
  region: {
    region: 'California',
    regionCode: 'CA',
    regionId: '12',
  },
  telephone: '1234567890',
  postcode: '90001',
  street: '123 Main St',
  streetMultiline_2: 'Suite 100',
  defaultShipping: true,
  defaultBilling: true,
};
```

## getAttributesForm

> The `getAttributesForm` function uses the [`attributesForm`](https://developer.adobe.com/commerce/webapi/graphql/schema/attributes/queries/attributes-form/) query to retrieve EAV attributes associated with customer and customer address frontend forms. The `formCode` parameter must be one of the following values: `customer_account_create`, `customer_account_edit`, `customer_address_create`, or `customer_address_edit`.

Reviewer: Should we use a bulleted list after 2 or 3 items?

getAttributesForm(formCode: 'customer_address_edit');
```

## getCountries

The `getCountries` function uses the [`countries`](https://developer.adobe.com/commerce/webapi/graphql/schema/directory/queries/countries/) query to retrieve a list of countries.

```ts
export const getCountries = async (): Promise<{
  availableCountries: Country[] | [];
  countriesWithRequiredRegion: string[];
  optionalZipCountries: string[];
}>
```

### Returns

Returns a promise that resolves to arrays of countries, regions, and postal codes.

```ts
{
    countries {
      two_letter_abbreviation
      full_name_locale
    }
    storeConfig {
      countries_with_required_region
      optional_zip_countries
    }
}
```

### Usage

To get a list of countries:

```javascript
import { getCountries } from '@/account/api/getCountries';

getCountries();
```

## getCustomer

The `getCustomer` function retrieves the customer information for the logged-in customer. The function uses the [`customer`](https://developer.adobe.com/commerce/webapi/graphql/schema/customer/queries/customer/) query.

```ts
export const getCustomer = async (): Promise<CustomerDataModelShort>
```

### Returns

> Returns a promise that resolves to CustomerDataModelShort object:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Returns a promise that resolves to `CustomerDataModelShort` object:
```

}
```

### Usage

To get details about the customer:

```javascript
import { getCustomer } from '@/account/api/getCustomer';

getCustomer();
```

## getCustomerAddress

The `getCustomerAddress` function returns an array of addresses associated with the current customer. The function uses the [`customer`](https://developer.adobe.com/commerce/webapi/graphql/schema/customer/queries/customer/) query.

```ts
export const getCustomerAddress = async (): Promise<
  CustomerAddressesModel[]
>
```

### Returns

Returns a promise that resolves to `CustomerAddressesModel` object:

```ts
export interface CustomerAddressesModel {
  firstName?: string;
  lastName?: string;
  city?: string;
  company?: string;
  countryCode?: string;
  region?: { region: string; regionCode: string; regionId: string | number };
  telephone?: string;
  id?: string;
  vatId?: string;
  postcode?: string;
  street?: string;
  streetMultiline_2?: string;
  defaultShipping?: boolean;
  defaultBilling?: boolean;
}
```

### Usage

To get information about the customer address:

```javascript
import { getCustomerAddress } from '@/account/api/getCustomerAddress';

getCustomerAddress();
```

## getOrderHistoryList

> The `getOrderHistoryList` function is an asynchronous function that retrieves a list of customer orders using the [`customer`](https://developer.adobe.com/commerce/webapi/graphql/schema/customer/queries/customer/) query. . It optionally takes parameters for pagination and filtering.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The `getOrderHistoryList` function is an asynchronous function that retrieves a list of customer orders using the [`customer`](https://developer.adobe.com/commerce/webapi/graphql/schema/customer/queries/customer/) query. It optionally takes parameters for pagination and filtering.
```

```ts
export const getOrderHistoryList = async (
  pageSize: number,
  selectOrdersDate: string,
  currentPage: number
): Promise<OrderHistory | null>
```

<OptionsTable
  compact
  options={[
    ['Parameter', 'Type', 'Req?', 'Description'],

>     ['pageSize', 'number', 'No', 'the maximum number of results to return at once. The default value is 20.'],

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    ['pageSize', 'number', 'No', 'The maximum number of results to return at once. The default value is 20.'],
```

    ['selectOrdersDate', 'string', 'No', 'Represents a date filter for the orders.'],
    ['currentPage', 'number', 'No', 'The current page of the order history list. The default value is 1.'],
  ]}
/>

### Returns

Returns a promise that resolves to an `OrderHistory` object or null.

### Usage

To get a list of customer orders:

```ts
import { getOrderHistoryList } from '@/account/api/getOrderHistoryList';

getOrderHistoryList();
```

## getRegions

The `getRegions` function uses the [`country`](https://developer.adobe.com/commerce/webapi/graphql/schema/directory/queries/country/) query to retrieve a list of states or provinves for a specific country.

```ts
export const getRegions = async (
  countryCode: string
): Promise<RegionTransform[]
```

<OptionsTable
  compact
  options={[
    ['Parameter', 'Type', 'Req?', 'Description'],

>     ['countryCode', 'string', 'Yes', 'a two-letter abbreviation for the country ID'],

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    ['countryCode', 'string', 'Yes', 'A two-letter abbreviation for the country ID.'],
```

The `updateCustomer` function updates the logged-in customer. The function uses the [`updateCustomerV2`](https://developer.adobe.com/commerce/webapi/graphql/schema/customer/mutations/update-v2/) mutation.

The `form` object keys are converted to snake_case using the `convertKeysCase` utility with specific mappings for `firstName`, `lastName`, `middleName`, and `custom_attributesV2`.

```ts
export const updateCustomer = async (
  form: Record<string, string>
): Promise<string>
```

<OptionsTable
  compact
  options={[
    ['Parameter', 'Type', 'Req?', 'Description'],
    ['form', 'object', 'Yes', 'Contains the attributes to update.'],
  ]}
/>

### Returns

Returns a promise that resolves to a string, which could be a success message or an error message.

### Usage

To update the customer:

```ts
import { updateCustomer } from '@/account/api/updateCustomer';

updateCustomer(form: CustomerUpdateInput);
```

## updateCustomerAddress

The `updateCustomerAddress` function updates an address associated with the current customer. The function uses the [`updateCustomerAddress`](https://developer.adobe.com/commerce/webapi/graphql/schema/customer/mutations/update-address/) mutation.

> The `forms` object includes an `addressId`, Aa number representing the ID of the address to be updated and other address details as defined in CustomerAddressesModel.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The `forms` object includes an `addressId`, which is a number representing the ID of the address to be updated and other address details as defined in `CustomerAddressesModel`.
```
